README.md, before:

<!-- Improved compatibility of back to top link: See: https://github.com/othneildrew/Best-README-Template/pull/73 -->
<a name="readme-top"></a>
<!--
*** Thanks for checking out the Best-README-Template. If you have a suggestion
*** that would make this better, please fork the repo and create a pull request
*** or simply open an issue with the tag "enhancement".
*** Don't forget to give the project a star!
*** Thanks again! Now go create something AMAZING! :D
-->



<!-- PROJECT SHIELDS -->
<!--
*** I'm using markdown "reference style" links for readability.
*** Reference links are enclosed in brackets [ ] instead of parentheses ( ).
*** See the bottom of this document for the declaration of the reference variables
*** for contributors-url, forks-url, etc. This is an optional, concise syntax you may use.
*** https://www.markdownguide.org/basic-syntax/#reference-style-links
-->
[![Contributors][contributors-shield]][contributors-url]
[![Forks][forks-shield]][forks-url]
[![Stargazers][stars-shield]][stars-url]
[![Issues][issues-shield]][issues-url]
[![Halimah's LinkedIn][linkedin-shield]][linkedin-url]
[![Adel's LinkedIn][linkedin-shield]][linkedin-url2]



<!-- PROJECT LOGO -->
<br />
<div align="center">
  <a href="https://github.com/fac30/discord-ai-bot--halimah-adel">
    <img src="assets/AI Bot.png" alt="Waving robot to imply Artificial Intelligence" width="80" height="80">
  </a>

<h3 align="center">Discord AI bot</h3>

  <p align="center">
    A Discord chat bot that acts as a helpful AI assistant, using ChatGPT
    <br />
    <a href="https://github.com/fac30/discord-ai-bot--halimah-adel"><strong>Explore the docs »</strong></a>
    <br />
    <br />
    <a href="https://github.com/fac30/discord-ai-bot--halimah-adel">View Demo</a>
    ·
    <a href="https://github.com/fac30/discord-ai-bot--halimah-adel/issues">Report Bug</a>
    ·
    <a href="https://github.com/fac30/discord-ai-bot--halimah-adel/issues">Request Feature</a>
  </p>
</div>



<!-- TABLE OF CONTENTS -->
<details>
  <summary>Table of Contents</summary>
  <ol>
    <li>
      <a href="#about-the-project">About The Project</a>
      <ul>
        <li><a href="#built-with">Built With</a></li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li>
    <li><a href="#installation">Installation</a></li>
    <li><a href="#roadmap">Roadmap</a></li>
    <li><a href="#contributing">Contributing</a></li>
    <li><a href="#license">License</a></li>
    <li><a href="#contact">Contact</a></li>
    <li><a href="#acknowledgements">Acknowledgements</a></li>
  </ol>
</details>



<!-- ABOUT THE PROJECT -->
## About The Project

[![Discord AI Bot in use][product-screenshot]]()

Halimah and Adel's second project for Founders and Coders bootcamp: a Discord AI bot, made using asynchronous functions and Node.js.

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>



### Built With

* [![Node][Node.js]][Node-url]
* [![Discord][Discord.js]][Discord-url]
* [![Dotenv][.env]][Dotenv-url]
* [![OpenAI][openai]][openai-url]

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>



<!-- GETTING STARTED -->
## Getting Started

This is an example of how you may give instructions on setting up your project locally.
To get a local copy up and running follow these simple example steps.

### Prerequisites

This is an example of how to list things you need to use the software and how to install them.
* npm
  ```sh
  npm install npm@latest -g
  ```

## Installation

If you want to install this project on your local machine and play around with it, follow these steps:

1. Get a free API Key at [OpenAI](https://platform.openai.com/api-keys)
2. Create a bot on [Discord Developers](https://discord.com/developers/applications)
3. Assign the permissions you want the bot to have (ensure you select `bot` and `applications.commands`) and generate a URL
4. Invite your bot to a server you manage by pasting the generated link
5. Get your bot's token
6. Clone the repo
   ```sh
   git clone https://github.com/fac30/discord-ai-bot--halimah-adel.git
   ```
7. Install NPM packages
   ```sh
   npm install
   ```
9. Enter your API and Discord Token in `.env`
   ```
   TOKEN=ENTER-TOKEN-HERE
   API_KEY=ENTER-API-KEY-HERE
   ```

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>



<!-- USAGE EXAMPLES -->
## Usage

Use this space to show useful examples of how a project can be used. Additional screenshots, code examples and demos work well in this space. You may also link to more resources.

_For more examples, please refer to the [Documentation](https://example.com)_

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>



<!-- ROADMAP -->
## Roadmap

- [ ] Set up a new Node.js project with `.env`, `openai` and `discord.js` libraries
- [ ] Initialise bot and start listening for messages
- [ ] Add message handling
- [ ] Optimise event handling
- [ ] Integrate OpenAI into the bot
- [ ] Manage OpenAI response
- [ ] Add command prefix
- [ ] Implement error handling

### Stretch goals

If we have time, we aim to attempt some of these stretch goals:

- [ ] Enable the bot to message users directly
- [ ] Implement dialogue boxes and interactive responses
- [ ] Create private channels
- [ ] Automated moderation
- [ ] Add multimedia responses

See the [open issues](https://github.com/fac30/discord-ai-bot--halimah-adel/issues) for a full list of proposed features (and known issues).

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>



<!-- CONTRIBUTING -->
## Contributing

If you'd like to contribute to this project, you can fork the project and open a pull request.

1. Fork the Project
2. Create your Feature Branch (`git checkout -b feature`)
3. Commit your Changes (`git commit -m 'Add some feature'`)
4. Push to the Branch (`git push origin feature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>



<!-- CONTACT -->
## Contact

Project Link: [https://github.com/fac30/discord-ai-bot--halimah-adel](https://github.com/fac30/discord-ai-bot--halimah-adel)

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>



<!-- ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS -->
## Acknowledgements

We used a number of resources to understand how to use OpenAI's API and Discord.js to create an AI chat bot. This includes official documentation:

* Discord.js [official documentation](https://discordjs.guide/#before-you-begin)
* OpenAI [API documentation](https://platform.openai.com/docs/introduction)

And online tutorials. Thanks to the following creators for their excellent tutorials on creating a Discord AI bot:

* Beau Carnes: creating a [Discord bot](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/create-a-discord-bot-with-javascript-nodejs/)
* UnderCtrl: creating a [Chat GPT Discord bot](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EUlnKW6Yy94&t=1053s)
* Omnidev: creating a [Discord AI chat bot](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TVDHpjLymiM&t=301s)

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>



<!-- MARKDOWN LINKS & IMAGES -->
<!-- https://www.markdownguide.org/basic-syntax/#reference-style-links -->
[contributors-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/fac30/discord-ai-bot--halimah-adel.svg?style=for-the-badge
[contributors-url]: https://github.com/fac30/discord-ai-bot--halimah-adel/graphs/contributors
[forks-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/forks/fac30/discord-ai-bot--halimah-adel.svg?style=for-the-badge
[forks-url]: https://github.com/fac30/discord-ai-bot--halimah-adel/network/members
[stars-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/stars/fac30/discord-ai-bot--halimah-adel.svg?style=for-the-badge
[stars-url]: https://github.com/fac30/discord-ai-bot--halimah-adel/stargazers
[issues-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/issues/fac30/discord-ai-bot--halimah-adel.svg?style=for-the-badge
[issues-url]: https://github.com/fac30/discord-ai-bot--halimah-adel/issues
[license-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/license/fac30/discord-ai-bot--halimah-adel.svg?style=for-the-badge
[license-url]: https://github.com/fac30/discord-ai-bot--halimah-adel/blob/master/LICENSE.txt
[linkedin-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/-LinkedIn-black.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=linkedin&colorB=555
[linkedin-url]: https://linkedin.com/in/halimahmanan
[linkedin-url2]: https://www.linkedin.com/in/adel-k-54b142162/
[product-screenshot]: assets/ai-bot-in-use.png
[Node.js]: https://img.shields.io/badge/Node.js-43853D?style=for-the-badge&logo=node.js&logoColor=white
[Node-url]: https://nodejs.org/en
[Discord.js]: https://img.shields.io/badge/Discord.JS-7289DA?style=for-the-badge&logo=discord&logoColor=white
[Discord-url]: https://discord.js.org/
[.env]: https://img.shields.io/badge/Dotenv-000000?style=for-the-badge&logo=.env
[Dotenv-url]: https://www.dotenv.org/
[OpenAI]: https://img.shields.io/badge/OpenAI-10a37f?style=for-the-badge&logo=openai&logoColor=white
[openai-url]: https://platform.openai.com/docs/introduction

Commit message:

updating Usage and Getting Started sections

README.md, after:

<!-- Improved compatibility of back to top link: See: https://github.com/othneildrew/Best-README-Template/pull/73 -->
<a name="readme-top"></a>
<!--
*** Thanks for checking out the Best-README-Template. If you have a suggestion
*** that would make this better, please fork the repo and create a pull request
*** or simply open an issue with the tag "enhancement".
*** Don't forget to give the project a star!
*** Thanks again! Now go create something AMAZING! :D
-->



<!-- PROJECT SHIELDS -->
<!--
*** I'm using markdown "reference style" links for readability.
*** Reference links are enclosed in brackets [ ] instead of parentheses ( ).
*** See the bottom of this document for the declaration of the reference variables
*** for contributors-url, forks-url, etc. This is an optional, concise syntax you may use.
*** https://www.markdownguide.org/basic-syntax/#reference-style-links
-->
[![Contributors][contributors-shield]][contributors-url]
[![Forks][forks-shield]][forks-url]
[![Stargazers][stars-shield]][stars-url]
[![Issues][issues-shield]][issues-url]
[![Halimah's LinkedIn][linkedin-shield]][linkedin-url]
[![Adel's LinkedIn][linkedin-shield]][linkedin-url2]



<!-- PROJECT LOGO -->
<br />
<div align="center">
  <a href="https://github.com/fac30/discord-ai-bot--halimah-adel">
    <img src="assets/AI Bot.png" alt="Waving robot to imply Artificial Intelligence" width="80" height="80">
  </a>

<h3 align="center">Discord AI bot</h3>

  <p align="center">
    A Discord chat bot that acts as a helpful AI assistant, using ChatGPT
    <br />
    <a href="https://github.com/fac30/discord-ai-bot--halimah-adel"><strong>Explore the docs »</strong></a>
    <br />
    <br />
    <a href="https://github.com/fac30/discord-ai-bot--halimah-adel">View Demo</a>
    ·
    <a href="https://github.com/fac30/discord-ai-bot--halimah-adel/issues">Report Bug</a>
    ·
    <a href="https://github.com/fac30/discord-ai-bot--halimah-adel/issues">Request Feature</a>
  </p>
</div>



<!-- TABLE OF CONTENTS -->
<details>
  <summary>Table of Contents</summary>
  <ol>
    <li>
      <a href="#about-the-project">About The Project</a>
      <ul>
        <li><a href="#built-with">Built With</a></li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li>
    <li><a href="#installation">Installation</a></li>
    <li><a href="#usage">Usage</a></li>
    <li><a href="#roadmap">Roadmap</a></li>
    <li><a href="#contributing">Contributing</a></li>
    <li><a href="#license">License</a></li>
    <li><a href="#contact">Contact</a></li>
    <li><a href="#acknowledgements">Acknowledgements</a></li>
  </ol>
</details>



<!-- ABOUT THE PROJECT -->
## About The Project

[![Discord AI Bot in use][product-screenshot]]()

Halimah and Adel's second project for Founders and Coders bootcamp: a Discord AI bot, made using asynchronous functions and Node.js.

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>



### Built With

* [![Node][Node.js]][Node-url]
* [![Discord][Discord.js]][Discord-url]
* [![Dotenv][.env]][Dotenv-url]
* [![OpenAI][openai]][openai-url]

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>



<!-- INSTALLATION -->
## Installation

If you want to install this project on your local machine and play around with it, follow these steps:

1. Get a free API Key at [OpenAI](https://platform.openai.com/api-keys)
2. Create a bot on [Discord Developers](https://discord.com/developers/applications)
3. Assign the permissions you want the bot to have (ensure you select `bot` and `applications.commands`) and generate a URL
4. Invite your bot to a server you manage by pasting the generated link
5. Get your bot's token
6. Clone the repo
   ```sh
   git clone https://github.com/fac30/discord-ai-bot--halimah-adel.git
   ```
7. Install NPM packages
   ```sh
   npm install
   ```
9. Enter your API and Discord Token in `.env`
   ```
   TOKEN=ENTER-TOKEN-HERE
   API_KEY=ENTER-API-KEY-HERE
   ```
10. Launch your bot in the terminal so it goes online
  ```sh
    node index.js
  ```

  (Note: you can optionally install `nodemon` so you don't have to launch your bot in the terminal every time you make a change to the code.)

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>



<!-- USAGE EXAMPLES -->
## Usage

If you want to play around with the bot as it's currently configured, ensure you type `!` before your message, so the bot knows you're talking to it instead of another user. Then ask it any question you'd like.

To ensure the API Key isn't overloaded, there is a token limit, so you might not get as full an answer as you expect.

You can change this by increasing the `max_tokens` value in `index.js`, line 83:
```js
max_tokens: 25,
```

Make sure to save after making this change!

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>



<!-- ROADMAP -->
## Roadmap

- [ ] Set up a new Node.js project with `.env`, `openai` and `discord.js` libraries
- [ ] Initialise bot and start listening for messages
- [ ] Add message handling
- [ ] Optimise event handling
- [ ] Integrate OpenAI into the bot
- [ ] Manage OpenAI response
- [ ] Add command prefix
- [ ] Implement error handling

### Stretch goals

If we have time, we aim to attempt some of these stretch goals:

- [ ] Enable the bot to message users directly
- [ ] Implement dialogue boxes and interactive responses
- [ ] Create private channels
- [ ] Automated moderation
- [ ] Add multimedia responses

See the [open issues](https://github.com/fac30/discord-ai-bot--halimah-adel/issues) for a full list of proposed features (and known issues).

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>



<!-- CONTRIBUTING -->
## Contributing

If you'd like to contribute to this project, you can fork the project and open a pull request.

1. Fork the Project
2. Create your Feature Branch (`git checkout -b feature`)
3. Commit your Changes (`git commit -m 'Add some feature'`)
4. Push to the Branch (`git push origin feature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>



<!-- CONTACT -->
## Contact

Project Link: [https://github.com/fac30/discord-ai-bot--halimah-adel](https://github.com/fac30/discord-ai-bot--halimah-adel)

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>



<!-- ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS -->
## Acknowledgements

We used a number of resources to understand how to use OpenAI's API and Discord.js to create an AI chat bot. This includes official documentation:

* Discord.js [official documentation](https://discordjs.guide/#before-you-begin)
* OpenAI [API documentation](https://platform.openai.com/docs/introduction)

And online tutorials. Thanks to the following creators for their excellent tutorials on creating a Discord AI bot:

* Beau Carnes: creating a [Discord bot](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/create-a-discord-bot-with-javascript-nodejs/)
* UnderCtrl: creating a [Chat GPT Discord bot](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EUlnKW6Yy94&t=1053s)
* Omnidev: creating a [Discord AI chat bot](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TVDHpjLymiM&t=301s)

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>



<!-- MARKDOWN LINKS & IMAGES -->
<!-- https://www.markdownguide.org/basic-syntax/#reference-style-links -->
[contributors-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/fac30/discord-ai-bot--halimah-adel.svg?style=for-the-badge
[contributors-url]: https://github.com/fac30/discord-ai-bot--halimah-adel/graphs/contributors
[forks-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/forks/fac30/discord-ai-bot--halimah-adel.svg?style=for-the-badge
[forks-url]: https://github.com/fac30/discord-ai-bot--halimah-adel/network/members
[stars-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/stars/fac30/discord-ai-bot--halimah-adel.svg?style=for-the-badge
[stars-url]: https://github.com/fac30/discord-ai-bot--halimah-adel/stargazers
[issues-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/issues/fac30/discord-ai-bot--halimah-adel.svg?style=for-the-badge
[issues-url]: https://github.com/fac30/discord-ai-bot--halimah-adel/issues
[license-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/license/fac30/discord-ai-bot--halimah-adel.svg?style=for-the-badge
[license-url]: https://github.com/fac30/discord-ai-bot--halimah-adel/blob/master/LICENSE.txt
[linkedin-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/-LinkedIn-black.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=linkedin&colorB=555
[linkedin-url]: https://linkedin.com/in/halimahmanan
[linkedin-url2]: https://www.linkedin.com/in/adel-k-54b142162/
[product-screenshot]: assets/ai-bot-in-use.png
[Node.js]: https://img.shields.io/badge/Node.js-43853D?style=for-the-badge&logo=node.js&logoColor=white
[Node-url]: https://nodejs.org/en
[Discord.js]: https://img.shields.io/badge/Discord.JS-7289DA?style=for-the-badge&logo=discord&logoColor=white
[Discord-url]: https://discord.js.org/
[.env]: https://img.shields.io/badge/Dotenv-000000?style=for-the-badge&logo=.env
[Dotenv-url]: https://www.dotenv.org/
[OpenAI]: https://img.shields.io/badge/OpenAI-10a37f?style=for-the-badge&logo=openai&logoColor=white
[openai-url]: https://platform.openai.com/docs/introduction
